hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery hair back
once again for another nice juicy
Chinese saying to add to your collection
I hope by now you try them out here and
there and that they've been of some use
to you in the course of your daily life
today is another great one again one of
my personal favorites because this one I
use it all the time
such as my fate in life bueno punching
and to learn where today's Chung you
came from as we always seem to do we
travel back to China's most ancient
evenings not as far back as the warring
States Period this time but the story
behind this Chinese saying does take
place during the Eastern Han which is
still pretty far back a couple thousand
years ago the source from which this
Chung you spraying from was called the
molds of Li hallooed not a well-known
work but as far as Chinese Buddhists
related classics go and it's one of the
bigger ones master Mo's treatise on
settling doubts mostly this work is
referred to as the modes ax let's
introduce the stars of today's drama top
billing no surprise here goes to mole
wrong also known by his nickname master
mo or modes ax
don't confuse him with another mole
wrong from the Tang Dynasty to different
people but same name
strangely enough we're in the early
years of the eastern Han around the Year
fifty sixty to give you a bit of a
timestamp mole Rong was a Confucian
scholar official who had been an early
convert to Buddhism he knew his
Confucian classics and his Buddhist
scriptures inside out and was
particularly good at explaining Buddhism
to the uninitiated and what it was all
about in this work the modes are Lee
Hall hoon like Plato's Republic is a
dialogue between modes and someone well
presumably a Confucian estándares
questions regarding Buddhism are
explained by mode su modes are was a
master of the Confucian classics and he
had
is special way of explaining answers to
questions that some of his fellow
scholars pose to him about Buddhist
teachings and with all that info now
playing in the background without
further ado let's look at the four
characters of Duany ol punching we'll
look at it one by one you'll see with
this one you can almost figure out what
this is all about once you hear the
meaning of each of the four characters
Dewayne yo Thanh chin boy in this case
means to face or towards and yo that's a
cow or an ox Thanh means among a few
other things to play like a musical
instrument one that has strings guitar
zither piano and a Chien is a zipper
like instrument of China that has seven
strings so dueño facing the ax followed
by tan chin which means to play as
either or or play a lute face ox play
lute hmm
before you jump to any conclusions let's
get to the story which reveals the
hidden meaning okay so we already know
of no wrong aka motsu so one day he's at
the palace of the Han Emperor and his
Confucian colleagues hit him up and
inquired why it was that every time they
asked him about the Buddhist sutras he
always had to start quoting from the
share Ching or their Shang Shu or some
other Confucian classic from the Jo
dynasty to provide an answer KITT
couldn't he just explain it at face
value modes are said to them look guys
you have almost no understanding of
Buddhism whatsoever but your grasp of
the Confucian classics is second to none
now if I start discussing Buddhist
sutras with you I'm spinning my wheels
how are you going to get what I'm saying
I have to find some medium to convey the
meaning to you so that you can have your
questions sufficiently answered modes
continued let me give you an example do
you remember that musician go Ming yi he
was real big in the warring States
period
young performer in China a little
eccentric but quite a musician when he
played his Jung he brought down the
house every time but one day go Ming Yi
was out in nature playing his Jung in
the fields and he was completely
absorbed with his music he was doing one
of his most famous and inspirational
pieces change Y all yet it bothered him
why was it that all the cows grazing in
the field around him where he had sat
himself down
why were they completely unmoved by his
playing they just stood there completely
unawares chewing their cud and seemingly
oblivious to such magnificent sounds
emanating from his instrument so Gong
Bing Yi changed things up a little bit
and played a few riffs that mimic the
sound of mosquitoes flies and even the
sound of a lowing calf and then he saw
all the cows in the field everyone their
ears waggle they looked up and started
swishing their tails happily seemingly
affected by the musical sounds they were
now hearing so the Confucian colleagues
of master mo nodded their heads silently
and Moses said hey no offense fellas but
if I'm gonna give you direct answers
from Buddhist Scripture it's like going
being a play and has jumped to the cows
he had to find a way to make a
connection and that's all I'm doing by
bringing in the Chinese classics to
explain myself to you
well these gathered officials mumbled
amongst themselves and you nodded to
master mole but I'm not sure how they
felt about this kind of comparison but
the use of this idiom Dwayne yo ton
Chien quoted from master Mo's treatise
unsettling doubts the mold sir Lee
Harlan
well isn't terribly respectful to imply
that what you have to say can't possibly
be appreciated by your audience at that
time well that's kind of a distant
cousin to last week's episode that
introduced the saying chook al hug
whaaah
this saying daniel hunching is our
english version of to cast pearls before
swine it says what you're presenting
can't be understood and certainly not
appreciated by your audience to play a
lute to a cow you're wasting your effort
so you could remember this one next time
you see someone blathering away in vain
about something and the person they're
directing this to has no idea what
they're talking about you can tell that
person hey forget it
Daniel hunching you're wasting your time
you're preaching to deaf ears you're
talking over their heads you're playing
a lute to a cow you're casting pearls
among swine as Matthew said she could
keep this one handy for safekeeping
and as I said I must often resort to
this one myself from time to time I
remember once I took a bunch of people
in China to the Met last year to go see
a ballet and when it was all over you
know one of them one of my guests asked
me hey what did you think and I answered
a note unchain because I didn't know
enough about ballet to appreciate it the
beauty and meaning of that performance
was lost on such a Philistine is your
humble narrator that is all I have for
you this time
Mozilla Montgomery here on behalf of Joe
way and the whole team at the chop page
Zhong Yu Yin cho jeong xin reminding you
to also check out the china history
podcast and the china vintage hour over
at tea cup dot media and also don't
forget if you're flying Cathay Pacific
this very Chinese sayings podcast and
the venerable internationally
award-winning China history podcast are
both available as part of cafes
in-flight entertainment system that
doesn't help you get some mid-flight Z's
then I don't know what will
that's enough grandstanding for one
episode take care everyone and I hope to
see you next time for another musical
episode of the Chinese sayings podcast
you